now the key to the Mini Cooper 4-door is
of course for dorks they've never had a
cooper with four doors before though
there are other minis that have four
doors the whole car is six inches longer
nose to rump about half that much is in
between the wheels extending the
wheelbase two inches more rear seat
legroom which if you're gonna put in
rear doors
you better have a reason to use them
even the front doors are different to
allow these doors to be bigger and you
also get two inches of additional
shoulder room in the backseat because
the whole rear quarter of the car is
contoured differently it's not like they
just took the two-door and hacked it and
stuck in an extender this is a
substantially different car from the
cowl on back still after all that it
picks up only 110 pounds over the two
doors
now the first thing I notice when I get
in the current generation Mini that
brings a tear to my eye is that this
round bezel thing is just a thing it's
no longer ever that big iconic
speedometer that he's used to have back
in the day now it's simply a place for a
screen we have the largest screen the 8
inch that has navigation now your other
interfaces up here you've got your
motorcycle style takun speedometer and a
little help or LCD down there as well
there's one more screen that's optional
but we have it that's the little
motorized head-up display this kind of
visor style you can set that to show
speed navigation prompts calling and
audio if you use a connected phone in
the console cradle nobody has more audio
choices than these guys including
Pandora Rhapsody tune in audible
stitcher Amazon Cloud and Osseo and all
of that is via the mini connected app on
your phone
slotted into a phone dock in the console
which also gets you power and an
external antenna name without an app
you've got am/fm HD radio satellites
optional 6 disc is optional like you'd
really want that auxilary jack and USB
basic audio is a 6 speaker rig and you
can upgrade to Harman Kardon surround
set which we do have now controlling all
of your head unit gear is an eye drive
controller down here but
very different than BMW not in its
layout but in its altitude when it's up
here in a console like on most BMWs your
hand is like so as it operates it now
your fingers like this you're using a
down pointed fingertip this was a pain
to use now driving Armin he gets us to
this automatic shifter because we have
the six-speed automatic we'll size it up
on the road paddles on this car because
of the automatic around the shifter
you've got your drive mode control like
you've never seen before take it over to
the green mode the normal mode or the
sport now under its cute little snout
you've got two engine choices depending
whether you get a cooper or a cooper s
the base Cooper's got a three cylinder
this is an S we've got a four both
engines are turbocharged but ours has
got two liters of displacement versus
one and a half 189 horsepower 207
pound-feet of torque 0 to 60 and 5.6
seconds mpg varies on your transmission
2940 if you get a manual interestingly
lower mpg if you get an automatic it
doesn't usually go that way and
regardless of what engine size our
transmission you've got front-wheel
drive let's go for a ride
out on the open road I'm pleased to
report that the mini hasn't lost its
mini nough sivan though it's a little
more Mexi than it was it still has this
go-kart like steering short wheelbase
tightly sprung undercarriage and a stiff
shell all leads into them maybe you can
hear that nice little exhaust snarl
before you turn your back on that
automatic know that it's a really good
one especially when the rings in the
sport mode or the shifters in the sport
gate gears change tightly and cleanly I
find this is what works best sporty-er
rewards what this car is all about the
ride quality is what I would call a
comfortable go-kart it's not jarring
it's super tight some minis in the past
especially with the Cooper S package
could be a little bit brittle anymore
and all around the turbo is really good
it's a spacious enough car for me I'm
pretty tall and visibility's not
terribly constricted even though we have
some very chunky pillars back in the
rear corners okay a Cooper s 4-door is
26 or so based exactly a thousand
dollars more than a two-door you're
paying five hundred bucks a door gonna
look at it that way now fifteen hundred
more if you want the automatic
transmission it's a pretty good one I
got to say and it seems to pair well
with the mission of a four-door car once
you love this guy I've seen that style
you're right up against 30 grand
they've retained the essential millions
of the vehicle even though they've added
some inches and added some doors a
pretty good trick they did their
homework and the fact that you've got a
more practical and justifiable platform
for the purchaser who wants to make sure
it's the right car for more years to
come they should sell these things like
mad or cars driven CNET style standing
by now at CNET on cars.com click on the
road